Welcome back, so now the time has come
to finally start building our API.
So this lecture is really gonna be the first step
in a long journey of building this main course project.
And let me actually start by showing you again
the project that we're talking about.
So this is the Natours project.
It's basically an application
where we can see tours and also book them.
We can create user accounts, we can log in,
and really do all kinds of different stuff.
So for example, we can take a look at the tour here.
It has all these details, this map,
it has reviews from other users that are using the platform,
and we can even book the tour then.
We would have to log in before we are able to book
and I'm not gonna do that now
because it's just a very simple demo here,
so I just wanted to show you this graphical interface,
basically, of the project that we are building.
Now this part that you're seeing here
is actually the part that we're gonna build
by the end of the course,
because this first part of the course
is to build an API using the exact same data
that you see here on this dynamic website.
So again, we start by building the API
and then the dynamically rendered website,
and I choose to do it like this
because this way, we don't have to mix
all this different content all together,
so in order to learn Express and Mongodb and Mongoose,
I find it much easier to just work with data
and not to worry about the graphical stuff,
even though that's maybe a bit more exciting
because you get to see the real results
in this beautiful interface.
But to learn, it's better to again,
simply just deal with the data itself
and worry about making it beautiful later.
Okay, so let me actually show you the API as well.
And for that, of course, I use Postman.
Create a new tab here.
And so the final API we accessed at
slash API, slash version one,
and then for example, we can take a look at tours.
So we use the get request
and then we get all of these different tours.
Right, so again, the exact same tours
that you saw on the graphical interface,
so on the rendered website before.
Okay, we can then also go ahead, take the ID,
and request only that ID, so on that tour for that ID,
and so you see that now we only have this one here
with even more data than we had before.
So we have start locations here,
we have tour guides which in turn has other ID's,
we have locations, we have reviews,
so all of that we have in a tour.
So you see, it's really advanced stuff
and so we actually have more than just tours.
We have users but we will not be able to access them
because we need to be authenticated.
So you're not logged in and so right now,
we would need to log into our app.
Now at this point, I'm gonna stop showing you
all the features because we will build this
throughout the course,
just to show you that there is really a lot going on here
and so there is a lot of material
and of stuff to learn ahead of you,
so I hope you're excited for that,
and that you want to take the first step with me right now.
So let's go back and implement the tours route
or starting to implement it, at least.
Okay, so this piece of code here, we no longer need,
and I'm not deleting it, just commenting it up.
So again, we use app.get
because in this lecture, we're gonna start
by just handling the get requests
and the URL will be slash API and tours.
So I'm not using v1,
well, I could use v1 right away,
so it's a good practice to specify the API version.
Okay, so that in case you want
to do some changes to your API,
you can do that but simply then on v2
without breaking everyone who is still using v1.
Okay, so basically, you can branch off,
create a new version of your API,
but all users can then still be using it.
If we did it just like this
and you did changes then to API slash tours,
then the users who started to use it
before you did the change would run into some problem.
Okay, so we always should specify the version of the API.
We could also do it in the subdomain,
but it's easier to just simply include it in the URL.
Okay, and then of course, our route handler.
So this is how we usually call this function.
We call it the route handler.
Okay, so just to get familiar with these Express terms.
Now what do we want to do when someone hits this route?
Well, we want to simply send back all the tours.
So that is similar to what we just learned
in the last lecture, right.
We have this URL or this endpoint, slash tours,
and that will usually send back all of the data
for that resource, right.
So, also tours is the resource now,
and I'm starting with tours here
because it's, I would say, the most obvious one
since we're building a website or a Web application
for selling tours, right.
Now where do we actually get these tours
that we wanna send back to the client?
Well, it's here in the dev-data folder,
then data, and then tours-simple.
So it's this JSON file, and it's very similar
to the one that we had for the note farm,
so again, it's an array of JSON objects
which then has a bunch of data about each of the tours.
And so yeah, that's the data
that we're gonna be sending to the client.
Now before we can send the data,
we actually need to first read it
and so again, we don't do it inside the route handler,
but we do it before.
Okay, and just like I explained in the previous project,
we can do that because the top-level code
is only executed once, which is right after
the application startup, right.
And now that you know all about the event loop,
it makes even more sense for you at this point, right.
So only this callback function, for example here,
will run inside the event loop
and so in here, we cannot have any block and code.
But outside, it is no problem at all.
So that simply reads the tours into a variable
outside of all of this in a synchronous way.
So fs, and for that, of course,
we need to require the module actually,
and so we do that here at the top.
And I like to always start with the core modules
and so I do that at the first one.
So require, fs,
so fs.readFileSync, it's already here.
And now, let's use the dirname.
And so again, at this point,
you already know why we actually have access
to this variable here, so dirname is the folder
where the current script is located,
and that is this main folder.
So from here, we need to move into dev-data,
then into data, and then in there,
we have tours-simple.json.
Okay, and now let's also, right in this step here,
parse the result of this.
So JSON, actually the uppercase one,
so JSON.parse, so that the JSON that we have in here
will automatically be converted to a Javascript object
or an array of Javascript objects, actually.
So saving it and so this will reformat it
and so now all we have to do
is to really send it back to the client,
so res.json,
and let me actually specify the status code here,
even if 200 is the standard,
I like to do it in each and every single response.
All right, so JSON, and what do we want to send back now?
Not message, that's for sure.
So what do we wanna send back?
Well, remember that we were gonna use
the Jsend JSON formatting standard.
Okay, and so in there, we specify a status,
and so status, and that can either be
success, fail, or error, okay.
So success is obvious.
It's when we have a 200 code or a 201
or really just any code that starts with 200.
Then we have the fail, which is an error at the client,
and then we also have error,
when there was an error at the server.
All right, but we are gonna use these a bit later.
Anyway, we also have then the data property
which is, as I mentioned,
the so-called envelope for our data.
So we specify the data property
and that data will then in turn have an object
which then contains the data,
so the response step we actually wanna send.
And in this case, that is tours.
So tours and then tours,
which is the same name in this case.
So with ES6, we actually do not need to specify
the key and the value if they have the same name,
so we could just write tours,
but I just wanted to specify it here
that I wrote tours here because, well,
that is the name of the resource and of the endpoint,
and so that's why, inside of data,
I then send back an object that has the tour property.
Okay, so if this was called x, for example,
then I would call this one here x,
but here, I would still need to say tours, okay.
I'm putting it back to tours because that makes more sense
and now I can delete this here and just leave it like this.
And that is actually all we have to do.
So we read our data and then we formatted our response
like this here, using the JSend data specification.
Okay, so very simple stuff.
Let's now just test it out
and we now have to change, of course, the URL,
so we have slash API, slash version one, and tours.
So that is our URL.
We still do a get request,
and so that's the one that we're responding to in code,
so remember, using this get method,
and so hit Send, and indeed, here we go.
So here, we have all our tours.
So, awesome, that's really cool.
Really, really nice work.
Now just to finish, something else that I like to do
usually when we are sending multiple responses
is to include a field called results
with the number of results that we are sending.
Okay, and this is not really part
of the JSend specification,
but I still really like to do it
because that makes it very easy for the client
to get very quick information
about the data it is receiving.
So we know that tours is an array
and so all we have to do is to say tours.length.
Okay, and this actually only makes sense
whenever we are sending an array, so multiple objects.
If we only were sending one tour,
then it wouldn't make sense to have results
such as one, right,
and so I only do this whenever we're sending an array
with multiple objects in there.
So let's do that again.
And indeed, we have nine results,
then we have the data property, then in there, tours,
to specify that we're sending tours,
and then an array with all the nine tours in there.
So you can see another object
and another one and another one,
and all the way to the end,
so that is the very first step to our API.
Of course, at this point, it's like a file-based API,
so we're reading this data from an API,
but later, of course, we're gonna store this data
in a database and then read it from there.
But anyway, this already looks kind of for real
and that for sure makes me feel really good,
and I hope it makes you feel good as well.
So that's it for the get request.
Next up, we're gonna take care of the post request
so that we can actually add a new tour to our data.